Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about calloc in C
Firstly calloc stands for
Contiguous allocation
So as we discussed calloc is declared in Standard
Library header file stdlib.h along with
malloc.
So to use this function in our programme we must include
stdlib.h first. Now let us see
an example programme where we first declare an integer
pointer ptr and it is a static memory allocation
So memory is allocated in stack. So let's assume memory for ptr
is allocated at address 2048
Next we have a dynamic memory
A location statement which uses calloc function and calloc
actually takes two arguments which are the number of elements
and the size of each element and returns the base
address of the memory allocated.
So here in this programme, we have calloc(5),size(int)
It actually means we need memory
for five integers so five blocks of memory each
with size of an integer which is 4 bytes will
be allocated and each block will be initialised to 0
and its base address 1000 is returned and which will
be stored in ptr
So using ptr we can access the allocated memory
Next we have some assignment statements first is
*(ptr+0)=10
So as we discussed in the previous tutorial *ptr+0
is a value at first block so 10 will
be stored here
Next we have *ptr+1 that is equal
to 20
So at second block 20 will be stored and similarly
30 40 and 50 also gets stored in third, forth
and fifth blocks respectively
Now let us considered a scenario where the heap is
already full and using calloc we are trying to allocate
some memory but heap is full already
Now what happens is just like the malloc case
calloc also returns NULL instead of the base address
So whenever we use malloc or calloc we should
first check whether memory was really allocated or not
So for that we can perform a NULL check like
this
That is if value returned by calloc is NULL,
memory was not allocated otherwise it was successful
So that's all and thank you for watching this video